In this video, we'll go over
logistic regression.
This is a learning algorithm that you use
when the output labels Y
in a supervised learning problem are all either zero or one,
so for binary classification problems.
Given an input feature vector X
maybe corresponding to
an image that you want to recognize as
either a cat picture or not a cat picture,
you want an algorithm that can
output a prediction,
which we'll call Y hat,
which is your estimate of Y.
More formally, you want Y hat to be the
probability of the chance that,
Y is equal to one given the input features X.
So in other words, if X is a picture,
as we saw in the last video,
you want Y hat to tell you,
what is the chance that this is a cat picture?
So X, as we said in the previous video,
is an X dimensional vector,
given that the parameters of
logistic regression will
be W which is also an
X dimensional vector,
together with b which is just a real number.
So given an input X and the
parameters W and b,
how do we generate the output Y hat?
Well, one thing you could try,
that doesn't work,
would be to have Y hat be
w transpose X plus B,
kind of a linear function of the input X.
And in fact, this is what you use if
you were doing linear regression.
But this isn't a very good algorithm
for binary classification
because you want Y hat to be
the chance that Y is equal to one.
So Y hat should really be
between zero and one,
and it's difficult to enforce that
because W transpose X
plus B can be much bigger than
one or it can even be negative,
which doesn't make sense for probability.
That you want it to be between zero and one.
So in logistic regression, our output
is instead going to be Y hat
equals the sigmoid function
applied to this quantity.
This is what the sigmoid function looks like.
If on the horizontal axis I plot Z, then
the function sigmoid of Z looks like this.
So it goes smoothly from zero up to one.
Let me label my axes here,
this is zero and it crosses the vertical axis as 0.5.
So this is what sigmoid of Z looks like. And
we're going to use Z to denote this quantity,
W transpose X plus B.
Here's the formula for the sigmoid function.
Sigmoid of Z, where Z is a real number,
is one over one plus E to the negative Z.
So notice a couple of things.
If Z is very large, then E to the
negative Z will be close to zero.
So then sigmoid of Z will be
approximately one over one plus
something very close to zero,
because E to the negative of very
large number will be close to zero.
So this is close to 1.
And indeed, if you look in the plot on the left,
if Z is very large the sigmoid of
Z is very close to one.
Conversely, if Z is very small,
or it is a very large negative number,
then sigmoid of Z becomes one over
one plus E to the negative Z,
and this becomes, it's a huge number.
So this becomes, think of it as one
over one plus a number that is very,
very big, and so,
that's close to zero.
And indeed, you see that as Z becomes
a very large negative number,
sigmoid of Z goes very close to zero.
So when you implement logistic regression,
your job is to try to learn
parameters W and B so that
Y hat becomes a good estimate of
the chance of Y being equal to one.
Before moving on, just another
note on the notation.
When we programmed neural networks,
we'll usually keep the parameter W
and parameter B separate,
where here, B corresponds to
an inter-spectrum.
In some other courses,
you might have seen a notation
that handles this differently.
In some conventions you define an extra feature
called X0 and that equals a one.
So that now X is in R of NX plus one.
And then you define Y hat to be equal to
sigma of theta transpose X.
In this alternative notational convention,
you have vector parameters theta,
theta zero, theta one, theta two,
down to theta NX And so,
theta zero, place a row a B,
that's just a real number,
and theta one down to theta NX
play the role of W. It turns out,
when you implement your neural network,
it will be easier to just keep B and
W as separate parameters.
And so, in this class,
we will not use any of this notational
convention that I just wrote in red.
If you've not seen this notation before
in other courses, don't worry about it.
It's just that for those of you that
have seen this notation I wanted
to mention explicitly that we're not
using that notation in this course.
But if you've not seen this before,
it's not important and you
don't need to worry about it.
So you have now seen what the
logistic regression model looks like.
Next to change the parameters W
and B you need to define a cost function.
Let's do that in the next video.